(playful music)
And just like we did with these pizza pages
where we dynamically created them
because we're not about to go ahead
and make a new JS file for every single pizza.
We need to do the same for our toppings.
However, it's a little bit different
in that we are going to reuse the pizza.js page,
but just pass it the ability to search for a specific topic.
So this one is kind of similar to what we did.
There's a little bit extra.
So I'm gonna encourage you to try and do this one yourself.
So if I click on roasted garlic,
I should see a page that looks exactly like this.
however I should only see three pizzas shown on that page.
And then also a roasted garlic should be the topping
selector should be highlighted showing us
that where we're specifically on that page.
So welcome back, good job.
You did a great job,
let's do it ourselves.
So we're gonna go into our Gatsby-node.JS,
and we're gonna write another one of these functions
like this turn pizzas into pages.
We're gonna make another one called
turn toppings into pages.
So we're gonna go down here.
Were making a sync function called turn toppings into pages,
and then we need to do a couple things.
One, get the template,
two query all the toppings,
three create page for that topping
and then four like pass topping data to pizza.JS,Okay.
And then before we even even get going,
we need to make sure that this turned toppings into pages
runs right here.
Now you might think okay, well,
I can play that game.
Turn toppings into pages,
we've got our params and we're often running.
Now this is a common thing that happens with a sync await
is that if we were to await right here,
that we'll pause this create pages function from running,
it will go off,
turn all the pizzas into pages and then done.
And then it moves on to the next line,
turn toppings into the pages.
So these things are not related,
meaning that we don't have to wait for the pizzas
to be turned into pages
before we can turn the toppings into pages,
they can be run at the same time.
And the word that we're looking for here in JavaScript is
they can be run concurrently at the same time.
So what we can do is we can turn these two.
These are both promise based function.
So this one says,
I promise I'll turn the pizzas into pages.
And this one says,
I promise I'll turn the toppings into pages.
So if we want to run them concurrently at the same time,
we can await capital P promise.all
and pass it in array of promises.
And what that will do is they'll run them all
and wait for all of them to finish,
and that's gonna make your bills faster.
So what we'll do here is we'll put that
as the first item in that array.
And we don't need the await keywords anymore
because we are simply awaiting all of them.
So right here, we'll say,
wait, we can get rid of,
I'll put these down here.
I'll just say,
wait for all promises to be resolved
before finishing this function.
And that's how Gatsby knows to wait for these pages
to be created before it starts to server
and tells you that it's OK to go to local host 8,000.
Alright, so let's just put a little comment in here.
Console log, turning the toppings into pages.
So first get the template.
Well, we can pretty much borrow a lot from here.
So it's a template equals path that resolve,
we'll go down here,
we'll call this,
let's call it toppings template path that resolve.
And in our case,
we are not going to be making another template.
Cause we already have a template.
And that is pizzas.JS.
It's in our pages directory.
And it's being used to render out this page
with all of them.
So we wanna just use that same page to render out the
subsection of a topping.
And we're gonna modify this query right here
to take in an argument as to which toppings to filter for.
So we will go into our pages directory
and get lowercase, pizzas.JS.
Next, We want to query all of the toppings.
We'll say cons query bracket data is equal to GraphQL
and now okay, GraphQL.
Where's that coming from?
Well it's not something you import our case
remember we have to destructure GraphQL and the actions
you'll see that this is called the Function Signature.
The function signature looks the same
for all of these functions that turn data into pages.
So we destructure GraphQL and actions.
We use GraphQL here and we'll write a quick query
to get all of our toppings where we say,
toppings all sanity toppings.
topping sorry, singular.
Yeah, it got me there.
That would have been a bad day.
We want the nodes and for each one
we want the name of the topping
and the ID of the topping.
I believe that's all we need.
Ooh, look can you see this
You wanna restart it?
We don't need to restart it yet.
Let's just keep, keep writing some data.
All right, now we need to loop over each of the toppings
and create a page for that.
So say data.toppings.nodes.foureach topping
and let's just console log creating page for topping
topping.name.
Let's stop there,
let's try this little restart thing.
Doesn't look like it's actually restarting for me.
I'm gonna just kill it myself.
It started again.
All right, I got an error here.
Cannot read property toppings
of undefined data.toppings.
Okay looks like we need to back it up.
We got a little cocky there
and wrote too much code without seeing
that this works.
So how do we fix that?
Well, let's comment out this number three here
and console log data,
see what we're working with here.
Is anyone else just mash their keyboard
in order to kill their process?
Boom Okay, so look, look we got our toppings.
Oh no that's not it,
that's a console log from something else.
Oh, I got myself there, okay.
And it looks like this blank line
is probably our console.log, okay.
If this is the case,
you can also destructure the error property
or you can just say response or yes.
Let's just console log their response
see what we're working with there.
Another thing we could do is just as a gut check,
go to our query__GraphQL.
And we could test if this is working,
Oh, we're not gonna be able to go to GraphQL,
cause it's not running but there we go
we're console logging the response here.
And it tells us it's a promise.
So what did I forget?
I forgot to await this GraphQL.
So let's bring that back to destructuring data,
await GraphQL.
I better work now I'm so confident
I'm going to put the data to topping,
stop for each back,
Kill the process, start that sucker again.
Here we go and so now we've got
creating page for grumpy mushroom.
So every single topping we're looping over it
and we see it showing up, good.
Okay, so a next step that we have is we'll take our actions.
Remember actions gets passed in via the function right here,
and we use the.create page,
and that takes an object
and then in that we say,
the path is going to be a topping/thetopping.name
and the component is going to be,
what did we call it here?
Topping template.
Okay, and the context we are going to pass along is
the topping is topping.name
and let's put it to do regex for topping.
I'll explain that in just a second.
But let's see if that actually creates the topping page
and then we'll work at actually filtering it out.
All right, our thing is up and running.
Now if I click on mushrooms,
you see we have topping/mushrooms,
but obviously we still see all the pizzas,
but all of these pages are now existing in the uron .
Another kind of cool thing
is you can go to a page that actually doesn't exist.
And our 404 page will show us a list
of all of the pages and look at all of these toppings pages
are now showing up in our website, which is awesome.
Okay, so now the question is,
how do we go back to our pizzas.JS and filter this
query for the specific toppings that we currently want?
So the way that we do that is,
let's go back to our graphical here,
bumped us right up,
make it as big as we can.
And let's write a query from scratch.
So query all sanity pizza,
and then for the nodes,
we want the pizza.name.
Oh, pizza We want the name, not the pizza.name
run, boom, got all the pizzas here.
Okay, so now we can take that all sanity pizza
and say, filter where the toppings,
now this is a little bit weird
because their toppings is an array.
And if you want to find an item
where something in the array matches it,
in our case, we use ELEM match.
And these filters are never standard across GraphQL.
You will see them look very similar from GraphQL
implementation to another,
but this is the way that sanity does it.
Actually, this is the way that Gatsby does it.
So we do another one here and we say elem match.
And we wanna match the element
where the name of the topping is,
now we have all of these right here.
So I think if you hit, yeah,
if you hit control or option space, no,
it's a control space equal, not equal, in not in
regex or glob in our case name.
in this case we can either do in
and I believe we can say pepperoni,
run that, there we go. We've got two,
or we can use a regex
and that will allow us to do partial matches.
So in quotes// Pepper on a Pepper pep,
and that doesn't work because we need an eye there,
which means it's insensitive to case
and the capital P or lowercase p.
And there are we good,
There we go we're seeing all of them.
Let's actually go ahead and say toppings name.
Let's see what's on these pizzas,
chicken, onion, pepper, see our matches
peppers or pepperoni.
So there's two different ways to go about that.
The regex is a little bit more flexible,
especially if you have the user typing in your data.
Otherwise the in will work if it, you know exactly
that it's gonna be an exact match.
I'm gonna show you how to do the regex,
just because I'll show you how to do both.
what the heck, okay.
So we can go back to our pizzas
and we can modify this right here.
So pizzas all sanity pizza,
will say filter where the toppings
elemmatch capital M E L E M M A T C H.
And the name is in and now how do we get
the topping from here to there?
So we have to go back and modify this pizza query,
where we could say, we're going to take a topping.
And that is a string that's not required.
Last time we put a bang on the end,
in this case not because there is a chance
where you will be searching for all of the pizzas,
and then we can go in here and just say in topping,
I believe that is it.
I just gave it a save there and it put it all on one line.
So it's a little bit confusing with all the curly brackets,
but that's just the way it is.
Now, I believe variable topping,
type of string used in a position expecting type
square bracket and array of string.
Alright, well let's try that.
That's weird, I guess you can give it in multiple,
if you like, does that works?
It works, I've got to zoom back out.
Hey, look at that.
So if I click on onion, I get three.
If I click on hot peppers, I get two.
Okay, so that's one way to go about it.
The other way to go about it is if
and this is key.
If you are ever trying to do case insensitive
and things like that is.
If you're trying to regex it,
we'll leave it within but I'll show you a regex.
You can't just do something like this.
// insensitive and then put the topping in there.
You can't interpolate values into a regex
inside of here and you might be saying, okay,
Wes will create this whole string in JavaScript
and then pass it in, that doesn't work as well.
So Gatsby queries, this is GraphQL.
This is not JavaScript,
this is GraphQL template string,
and there's no way to interpolate a variable into an input,
which our cases is a regex input.
So if you wanted to pass in a regex,
what you would need to do here is say topping regex,
and you would need to create the regex in JavaScript,
which is in our Gatsby node so,
and then take the topping.name,
make that insensitive and also global.
Actually, we don't need it to be global.
as long as it's there, once it's fine.
And then we would go back here and modify this topping
to be topping regex,
and that will be a string.
And then the regex will be dollar sign topping regex.
So let's just see if that works.
We have to kill the build and start that again.
And let's refresh and the hot peppers page.
So it all works exactly the same.
So it's just two different ways to go about it.
But I thought I would actually,
no, look at this onion has one, two, three, four, five.
Why? Because, ah, you know why?
Because I have some of them say onions
and some of them say onion.
So it looks like there's some trouble in my data,
but I'm glad that happened,
'cause I'm happy to show you that the regex
is a little bit more flexible in this use case.
And that's certainly something that would happen
from a user
so you would have to go back and modify,
delete that onions with an S and then modify it back in
and put them all under onion, right?
I'm Gonna leave it like that just to show you.
So two ways to go about it,
which way should you do?
Probably the inversion is the simplest,
but the regex is a little bit more flexible.
I'll leave it at regex,
you can roll back to in if you want.
So that is dynamically creating our pages.
The last thing that we need to do is to highlight
whatever the current topping is.
And the way that we do that
is we'll go to our toppings filter
and we will pass it the act of topping.
And that will be pulled in via here we can,
we can destructure so go page context,
and here we can say page context.topping.
And why does that work?
Well, because when we created the page,
we've passed context.topping
as whatever the current topping name is,
and then we can get access to that via page context.topping
And then if we go into our toppings filter.JS,
we can destructure that value active topping,
and let's just console log it out,
or let's display it somewhere
just to make sure that it's actually working.
So let's just put a paragraph tag
curly bracket active topping.
There you go, so currently a mushrooms, honey, hot peppers.
So you see that that value is changing.
So we wanna use that value to highlight the link tag here.
So we'll go on the link tag will say,
class name is equal to curly brackets.
And I'll say if the current topping.name
is equal to the act of topping,
so whatever the current one is,
then give it a class of active.
Otherwise, give it a class of nothing.
So there we go, that's how we got that.
Now, if we go to roasted garlic and inspect that,
does that have a class of active?
There we go active.
We also have Aria current page that is on there as well.
So we could probably get,
actually we probably don't even need that class
cause it has an Aria attribute on it.
So let's go off to our CSS here
and the class of active should have a background of yellow.
It doesn't seem like it's working.
Let's take a look at our CSS a little bit more.
Okay, it doesn't look like
aaah, it's when it has a class of active.
So put an ampersand in front of that
and there we go that's showing up now
and up there we go.
Now it's showing up as the currently active topping
is being highlighted.
We could probably also get away with just saying
an Aria-Current is equal to page.
Does that work too?
Yeah, all right,
So we don't even need it because Gatsby
will give us this Aria attribute
of it being the current page.
So there's no sense in putting that act of class
directly on there which is cool.
The other thing we need to do
is to put a link for all of the toppings.
So we'll go right here and give ourselves a link
to /pizzas and we'll just say all,
and we also need a span,
actually, that all needs to be in a span as well.
So a span with a class of name,
all span with a class of count,
and we will say pizza's.nodes.length.
Does that highlight two?
That highlights two cause Gatsby puts a current page on it.
Awesome, Awesome, awesome, Awesome I like it.
Cool, also you probably see these,
things going in really slow.
I'm in the middle of the woods right now
on a very slow connection.
So normally they are not that slow,
but it just goes to show that
it still does provide a nice experience
even if you are on a slow connection with me,
which is the whole point of it.
Alright, I'll see you in the next one.